Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or ADHD agents
are most often stimulants that increase alertness,
wakefulness, focus and concentration.
They help when neurotransmitters between neurons within the brain
are unable to send signals past the synapse.
This inability to transmit signals
is due to the existence of too few transmitters
or because the neurotransmitters are recycled too quickly.
Thus inhibiting the transmission of the signal to the next neuron.
This decreases the ability to concentrate or focus.
ADHD stimulants increase the amount of neurotransmitters between neurons
by either releasing more neurotransmitters from the synapse
or blocking or slowing their recycling process.
This increases the signal's effectiveness between neurons
and makes the pathways in the brain more efficient,
thus improving the ability to concentrate or focus.